# Basic Object Oriented Analysis and Design

> This is not something to alwasy abide by, but its general guidelines to follow. Modifications can be made as needed based on the project.

## Tips for OOP

1. Write or draw about the problem.
2. Extract key concepts from 1 and research them.
3. Create a class hierarchy and object map for the concepts.
4. Code the classes and a test to run them.
5. Repeat and refine.

The idea is to start "top down" by writing about the problem, then extract key concepts as comments, then write the classes, then write the test, then repeat. You can also do this "bottom up" by writing code first, then extracting it into various classes and a hierarchy, then writing about it. Either way you just need to follow the steps and keep going until you have a good system of classes.

## The Analysis of a Simple Game Engine -> Tic-Tac-Toe (Beginner Friendly)

1. Write or draw out the problem.
   1. Tic-Tac-Toe is a two-player game played on a 3x3 grid. The goal is to get three of your own marks (either X or O) in a row, column, or diagonal. We need to design a game that allows two players to take turns placing their marks on the grid until a player wins or the game ends in a draw.

2. Extract key concepts from 1 and research them.
   1.  3x3 grid
   2.  Three marks in a row, column, or diagonal
   3.  Take turns
   4.  Player wins
   5.  Game ends in a draw

3. Create a class hierarchy and object map for the concepts.
   1. Board -> methods for displaying the grid, checking for a win or draw condition, and placing marks
   2. Player -> Player symbols, name, and methods for making moves
   3. Game -> Methods for starting the game, switching between players, and ending the game [win or draw]

4. Code the classes and a test to run them.
   1. _Coming Soon_ (Projects/TicTacToe.py)

5. Repeat and refine.